How to Access ProQuest

Mouse over Find on the library homepage then click on Databases. Now click on ProQuest on the right side of the page under "Recommended Databases." If off-campus, you will be prompted for your BRUIN Connect login. Once you are logged into one database, you are logged into all of them until you close your browser.

How to Search
When you click on ProQuest, you will see the ProQuest One Academic interface which searches most of the ProQuest databases simultaneously and therefore,  a number of types of resources besides journals.  If you prefer, you may select one of the specific subject-related databases on the Databases list, most of which are primarily journal databases. 

Basic Search in ProQuest One Academic
The Basic Search screen has a single search box on it with tabs above. You may search All types of resources or choose one of these: Scholarly Journals, Books, Videos & Audio, Dissertations & Theses, or More which displays several more source types on its drop-down menu. 

Search box. Once you have selected your source type, enter a search term or phrase that is relevant to your topic into the box on this page.
ProQuest uses autocomplete so as you begin to type, a list of search term suggestions will appear; you may click on one to choose it.
If using a phrase of two words or more, enclose it in quotation marks, even if was an "autocomplete" suggestion.
ProQuest will search document citations and text to locate articles containing your search term.
For more help setting up an effective search, click on Search Tips, located just under the search box.
Search options.  Right below the search box, you have the options to limit your results to Full Text and/or Peer-Reviewed . The Peer-reviewed option will find documents that appear in academic journals, though they may not be peer-reviewed. To determine if a journal is peer-reviewed see How to Find Peer-Reviewed Articles.
Advanced Search
Click on the link to Advanced Search in the navigation bar at the top of the page.

Search boxes.  This screen provides two rows of search boxes, with an option to add more, that allows you to combine multiple search terms.
Fields.  The advanced search gives you the option of selecting the fields you wish to search,  such as title, author, subject, journal title, or document text. 
Type your search term or phrase into one of the search boxes, then use the drop-down menu to the right of the term to select a field, if desired.
You may leave it set to "Anywhere"  if you prefer, and ProQuest will search all the fields, including the abstract, for your search terms.
Before you set the field to Subject, it is a good idea to check the Thesaurus, found on the right side of the page above the search boxes.  This will help you find the controlled vocabulary that is used by the various ProQuest databases.
When you click on Thesaurus, a window will open with a list of the thesauri that are associated with the databases you are searching.  Choose the one that applies, usually, this will be ProQuest thesaurus (subjects); type in a search term to see the actual subject terms used by this database.
Boolean searching.  You may use the drop-down menu in front of each search box to change the Boolean connector from AND (default) to OR, or NOT, in order to expand or limit your search.
Using AND between search terms will limit and focus your search, giving you fewer results, as both terms must be present in the fields being searched.
Using OR will expand your search, giving you more results, as only one of your search terms must appear.
Using NOT excludes a term from your results.
Search options.  There are several ways to limit your search listed just below the search boxes.
Mark the Full-Text option to find only documents that provide the complete full text, rather than just the citation or abstract.
Mark the Peer-reviewed option to find documents that appear in academic journals. 
You may also select a Date Range to limit your search to articles that were published during a particular time frame.
 Other choices are Source Type (magazine, newspaper, trade journal, etc), Document Type (article, video clip, dissertation), or Language.  The options available will depend on the databases you are searching.
For more help setting up an effective search, click on Tips, located near the search boxes.
